Homage to the Buddha Shakyamuni.
Greetings to all esteemed Dharma friends. Dear
Dharma friends, today we begin the
13th cycle
of our three-month summer retreat program.
Because many activities have arisen during this period, our practice
will be extended to this
13th cycle. We have three more cycles to go, meaning
our practice program has
cycles in total. Today, we will practice according to the meaning in
the Eightfold Path Sutra, which states that the five desires are
calamities. Let us review, reflect, and contemplate
on the five desires to see if they truly are
calamities, so that we may reduce our
greed and desires. The meaning of this sutra
is
the Sutra of the Monkey and the Trap. The content
of the Sutra of the Monkey and the Trap is that
the Buddha taught the monks
as follows: “The monks at Mount
Snow Lord had a lovely flat piece of land where
animals and humans came and
went.”  Here, the hunters set
plastic traps on the road to catch the
monkeys. The monks said that
monkeys that are not foolish or greedy will
avoid the plastic traps when they see them. But foolish, greedy monkeys will reach out and
grab them, and get stuck. If you try to
remove one hand, they'll
put another hand in and get stuck.
The Buddha taught that in
this mountainous region, where
humans and monkeys live
together in this mountain range,
humans often trap the monkeys using plastic traps
placed on the roads. If a
monkey is not foolish or greedy,
it will not get
caught in the trap. But if a monkey is
not observant, or is too greedy and
sees
other monkeys caught in the
trap but still reaches out to get food, then the
first hand will get caught.
That's when it will realize...  It
thought, "I'll put my hand in to free the
other hand," so it put its hand
in, and that hand got stuck too. Then
it thought, "I'll put my
foot in to free both hands," and it put its
foot in, and that foot got stuck too. So, both hands and one foot got
stuck. Then it thought, "
I'll use this foot to kick to
free both hands and one foot," and that foot got
stuck too.
So, both hands and feet got stuck.
Finally, it thought, "I'll use
my mouth to free both hands and feet," but using its mouth, it got
trapped and stuck too.
So, it was
completely captured. And those people took the
monkey back to roast it over a
fire. The Buddha taught the same thing: "Monks,
if you go to a place that is not your place of worship, a place of
another's realm—the realm of sight, sound,
smell, taste, and touch, which is
pleasing and attractive—evil spirits will seize the opportunity and capture you."
Respectfully,  Dear fellow practitioners, you
said here that the five desires are a calamity, meaning the
calamity arises from not being in one's proper place of practice. It's
like this monkey; if
it were to forage in its proper place, it would
n't be harmed.
But it forages in a trap, a place that is
n't its proper place, and that's why it
gets caught. Let's analyze this: a
monkey that isn't foolish or greedy wo
n't be caught. So, regarding
wealth, beauty, fame, and food, let's
see if they are a trap for us. As
lay people in the
world, we see that money
is a trap. Money is a
trap. Although money is
used to live, if you are
too greedy, it becomes a trap.
Many people say, "I work to
earn money," but if they are greedy, is
n't that a trap? Isn't it dangerous? Greed is dangerous. Is
stealing from others dangerous?
It is dangerous.  But if
people aren't foolish, it means they
think that in any matter,
if they are caught being greedy for something,
they will be caught red-handed.
That's not foolish, right? It means they
analyze it,
see the danger, and then stop being greedy,
right? This is a trap we
will fall into. And then
there's our body, my dear friends.
If we are too greedy for
our own bodies,
we will suffer. If we are too greedy for other
people's bodies, we will suffer.
Or there are people who, in order to
nourish themselves and maintain their
lives, kill
countless living beings to
sustain their bodies. This will bring
disaster upon them in the law of karma. And then there's
our reputation. If we are too greedy for
reputation, we
will immediately harm others. Greed for
money also harms people, greed for beauty also harms people, greed for
fame also
harms people. Because we harm others, we
will be harmed in return. We will...  We suffer the consequences of our actions.
Excessive gluttony, without any
thought or reflection, can lead to illness. Being greedy for food can
also
cause illness.
Sometimes, people fight and quarrel over food. And
sleep is the same;
sometimes, because of our
desire for sleep, we lose our
careers. Our desire for sleep breeds anger and resentment.
Therefore, the Buddha
taught that it is due to greed, to the
five desires, that
we suffer. This suffering
is a calamity, not only in
this life but in many lives to
come.
The Buddha also
taught that if we go to the realm of practice,
what is called the realm of practice here? That is, if we, as disciples of the
Buddha, cannot uphold
our precepts, if we go beyond
our chosen realm—the
realm of living according to the five precepts, the eight precepts,
or for those who have renounced the world, living according
to the 250 or 348 precepts—if we go
beyond...  The precepts and
rules we have learned
will trap us in the snare of worldly
desires, and because we are caught in the snare of worldly desires,
we will encounter calamities—suffering
in this world and suffering
in the cycle of reincarnation.
Respectfully, dear fellow practitioners, let
me further analyze the
interdependence between form, sound, smell, taste, and touch, and the five desires: wealth,
beauty, fame, and food. Form
refers to one
's own physical appearance, the physical appearance of others—this is our physical body, the physical
beauty of others.
Sound refers to the sounds and
noises emitted, the sounds that are produced,
that is, sound. Smell refers to the fragrance, taste
refers to the taste of the tongue, sweet,
spicy, sour, and bitter. Touch refers to the act of contact.
If we crave our own beauty,
because of our craving for beauty,
we may also crave money, because
people want to adorn themselves.  We crave our own beauty,
making it easy to become greedy for money.
Because we crave our own beauty,
we also crave the beauty of others. For
example,
my own beauty is like this, so
I also crave fame because of
my beauty. For example, if I am more beautiful than someone else, is
n't that fame? That's why
suffering, struggle, and harm arise
from our beauty. We
crave food and drink to make ourselves beautiful,
right? Then we call that "
food." And because of our beauty, we crave sleep, which also arises.
That's the correlation. Then, because of
our beauty, we crave sleep, which also arises. Then, because of the sounds we hear, people talk about
money and wealth, and we hear that, so
our greed
arises. If
we don't hear, how can we be greedy? We don't
hear people talking about
how to make money or what to do, right? So, it's
also because of the sounds that greed arises. We hear
praise and criticism about our appearance.  Is it about one's own beauty? That's
why resentment
arises from that sound.
We hear rumors about
someone's beauty, don't we? That this person is beautiful because
they do this, that's why they're
beautiful, right? It's also from that sound that
we follow suit. Sometimes
people apply certain
things to make them beautiful, but when we
apply them, it causes sores, right? There's so
much of it that we think deeply about it.
And so it's the same: from
this sound, we hear people being
praised.
That is, their reputation is praised. Then resentment arises. That's the "purity" and the "reputation"
of
lust. That's the "purity" and the "reputation" of desire. In reality,
we hear people praising something, saying it's delicious,
praising it this way and that way, and then greed
arises, right? Then
we hear people talking about
sleeping on top, saying it's very good, this way and that way, and greed arises.
Then from the "worldly scene" and the "
fragrance," isn't that
why we also like the fragrance, the scent? For
example...  There are so many things, like this flower, that perfume,
this perfume, that perfume, right? That's why
we start thinking about
finding them and using money to buy them,
right? So, from the
physical world of fragrance,
we also develop desire. Then, from that physical world,
from the taste,
we become greedy for taste, and we have to find money to
satisfy it. For example, today someone
says, "The food at this restaurant is delicious, this dish is delicious,
that dish is delicious." So, if
we want to eat that delicious food,
we have to suffer and worry, right?
Sometimes, we've already eaten enough, we've already nourished ourselves,
but because of greed for taste, right? Because of greed for taste,
we start doing evil
and harming others. Similarly, there's the desire for physical contact, the
physical contact between one person and
another. For example, my wife is ugly, right?
But when I
see another beautiful woman, I imagine
sleeping with her, this and that. Isn't that a desire for
physical contact? A desire for physical contact
that violates
basic moral principles. Sometimes, some people even go home and...  He
killed his wife, not his child,
to have the opportunity to be with someone else.
That's greed and attachment. Therefore, the five
worldly objects—sight, sound,
smell, taste, and touch—are what trigger our five desires, causing them to become aroused and
called
greed. Greed and attachment arise because we are
dragged along by these five worldly objects: sight, sound, smell, taste, and touch. My fellow practitioners, this is what we will do.
From this sutra, we
will present the meditation topics for the
first and second days to help us identify the
traps and calamities
of these five worldly objects—sight, sound, smell, taste, and
touch—which cause
us to fall
into greed for wealth, beauty, fame,
and food. When greed and attachment arise, calamity
strikes. Today's sutra is
very short, and during our meditation session,
we must
contemplate to see that indeed,
greed and attachment are calamities, my dear fellow practitioners.
In this video, the mind
focuses on the contemplation, with the title "Recognizing the
Traps and Calamities." If we
don't recognize these traps, then
we...  We will fall into traps if we don't recognize them. If we don't
recognize the traps,
we will do things
that cause us to encounter
those traps. If we know there are traps, we
stay away from them, and we won't be
harmed. If we don't recognize the
traps, we fall into them, and of course, once we're
in the trap, we
will encounter very painful misfortunes. In
this video, Day 1, we
will recognize the traps. The first point is to
think about the trap of money.
Money has been used to trap people
and how we have fallen into this trap. The
second point is to think about the
trap of lust. We have been greedy for
our physical bodies and have
used our bodies to trap
others. Let's
reflect on how we have been harmed by
our own physical bodies. Because of our ignorance,
we don't know how we have
suffered because of our lust. In
the morning, we might even groom ourselves and admire ourselves.  How much
sorrow and suffering there is
when it is corrupted like this.
How have I used my physical beauty, my physical appearance, to trap others, causing them to fall into my trap?
This is called being trapped. It
means I am also trapped by others. I
adorn myself to look
beautiful, and then I think
I will make others fall in love with me. I
think that if others fall in love with me,
I will be very happy, but it turns
out
that others fall in love with me instead. I
also suffer because of others. That is
because I trap myself. Then others,
I covet their physical beauty,
they also groom themselves, they do
this and that, and I am
attracted to them. Now, because of that attraction,
I suffer. That is called being trapped by
my own beauty, and
then being trapped by others because of my own beauty.
That is called being trapped by others. That is called being
trapped by others. Using this beauty to trap oneself
and then falling into others' traps. Then there is
the thought about the trap of sound.
I've always
used pleasant, easy-to-listen-to sounds and words to
seduce people, or I've
fallen into the trap of those pleasant sounds and
words, and I've
suffered because of it. Then there are many
other sounds, for example, we're captivated by
music, dancing, playing, this, that, all those
sounds.
From those sounds, we suffer so much.
That's how we fall into a trap. When people get
married, they say, "Back then, I was blind, I was deaf,
that's the trap. I thought marrying him would be like this and that, that's why I married him." That's being trapped. And then there's fragrance, that is, the scent. In this context, it's also related to the
physical body, but
we
use that scent to
seduce others, or others seduce us, or
we get trapped by the scent.
For example, if the scent wafts out, we ca
n't resist it.  So, that craving for food... it
goes up there, challenging the senses of sight,
smell, and taste. We are engrossed in food and taste,
thinking about the meaning of scent and flavor.
We
've always been drawn to it, and we've tried to trap others using scent and taste, and how
we've been
trapped by others using scent and taste.
Sometimes, people cherish
each other because someone cooks so well, they
remember each other forever, fall in love, get
married, and suffer for a lifetime. It's all because of
a small trap like that, my dear
friends. So, the
first thing is that we identify the
traps in the five realms:
sight, smell, taste, and touch, which give
rise to desires—wealth, beauty,
fame, food, and sleep. These desires
become traps that lead us
astray. We also
use the five realms of sight, smell, smell, taste, and
touch to make others greedy
for wealth, beauty, fame, food, and sleep, causing
them to fall into our traps
and others into ours.
That's the first thing we recognize.  When we
reveal
these traps on the second day, we will identify the
first calamity: the suffering we are currently experiencing
due to
using our
wealth and physical bodies to
trap others and falling into the traps of wealth
and beauty. We see that we are
trapped by these traps, and the suffering
we are currently experiencing
is the calamity caused by
our greed. This suffering is
most easily recognized by those who are married, have spouses, or lovers. Using
these possessions to trap others, we are now
suffering, trapped by those possessions.
There are some cases where people, after experiencing the Han Guan (a
Buddhist meditation practice), are advised to become
monks or nuns. They hesitate,
constantly debating between love
and not love, until finally
they say, "Teacher, but...
I think this way, if I get
married, I'll be a lay Buddhist at home. It's
good. I'll live well, living this and that
well." But when they get
married, they don't have a wife yet, but
raising a child is very difficult. And now they are
bound by it.  Then she said, "I know, I know, but it's a trap!"
She had a friend who gave birth to her
first child, but then she said, "I can't have another one, I'm so
miserable, it's so extreme!"
Then the following year, she got
pregnant with her second child. Now what to do?
Next, what suffering is she experiencing now
from using sounds to trap people? Using seductive words and phrases, what suffering is she experiencing when she falls into the trap of those words and sounds? The same goes for scents and flavors. What suffering is she experiencing now from using scents and
flavors to trap people, trapping them like madmen,
trapping herself? What suffering is she experiencing now
from falling into the trap of scents and flavors? The
next point is that we
should contemplate the
danger of such traps and the calamities when
we fall into them, so
we will stop trapping people and become
more aware of the traps of desire. The
next point is that because we don't know that desire is a
calamity,
we become infatuated with it, causing suffering in the cycle of
rebirth. We must contemplate
the suffering in the cycle of rebirth caused by our attachment to desire
and make a vow to remain pure.  The practice of cultivating
and reducing greed
is the subject of our meditation
on the second day.
Dear fellow
practitioners, let us practice together in
this cycle to recognize
the traps of greed that
we have fallen into. Because of
ignorance and greed, we trap others with the five things: sight, smell, taste,
and touch,
causing their desires to
arise—wealth, beauty, fame, food, and sleep. And
we ourselves suffer and are afflicted
by
our own traps and the traps of
others. Through this practice, we
can recognize and reduce our greed for sight, smell,
taste, and touch in our present lives,
so that we may
suffer less and progress on
our path to liberation. May you all be
diligent and receive many benefits
from these two meditation sessions. Namo
Buddha Shakyamuni [
music]
Ni
I I
K
[music] [Applause]
[music]